Hello and welcome to create database lecture this lecture and this whole section is based around creating
databases working with these databases and tables inside of them.
Generally speaking as you well can be divided into two parts.
One is working with data itself and the second one is working with databases tables schemas and all
the surrounding servers.
So it's very important to go for this section carefully because it teaches you that second part of school
usage and it's a very valuable skill in the workplace.
So in this section it's a very short section because creating databases is extremely easy.
In grad school all you need to do is first of all let's go ahead and check how many databases we see
right now.
We see free databases.
Nothing too scary here.
So let's go ahead click on any of them.
Select Nick where he told this opens our favorite window up and knowledge it's a great database and
then any name you want.
This is the database only for you purely for your information and for your usage.
So because this is going to be my database I'm just going to name it my knowledge base.
You can name it whatever you want.
Just make sure that name is already taking and you will remember it.
So as you can see how credible might out of ACE Radie up loaded up to go and the only thing we need
do is click refresh here and there we go.
This cross represents that right now the Bush grade school server is not connected to the database so
we cannot get any information from this database.
All we need to do is left click on it and now it says that database is connected and it's all ready
to go.
Let's quickly go ahead check schemas check tables.
We have none and that's absolutely correct.
So congratulations you've created your first very own database.
It wasn't that hard was it.
Now there is a couple things we can add to this create database Stephen For example we can say who the
owner is what's the encoding like.
What's the privileges and some other parameters.
But as for now it's not important because we're creating a very simple database and we'll deal with
those rules later on.
So because we're working with graphical user interface BGR and for what we can do is we can right click
on the databases or any of the database and select Create and select new database.
Here you can put in a new name so I can just say create database my database and on I want to say to
the owner will remain the same Pozza gray then the definition you see in coding templates tablespace.
Right now we don't need any of that security sweep through as well.
Parameters don't need any.
And if you click on the Eskil window you will actually see what this does.
So all you do by right clicking here and selecting Crais database is you making the PGE admin for write
the code for you as you can see is the same code.
Only this one has this additional information that owner encoding connection at.
But because we haven't change any of them it remains the default and is executed in this query that
we've created ourselves regardless.
So right now they're exactly in the same databases.
The only difference being the name.
So let's go ahead save it and now if go ahead and refresh this.
We can see that there is a new database created my database too.
It will have again no tables and nothing in it because we only need to work with one database for now.
Let's quickly go ahead and press this delete drop what it does it just deletes and drops all of your
database.
Easy as that.
It's all gone.
So that was easy wasn't it.
The one line statement creates a whole database for you to fill in with data and tables but that's where
it gets tricky because when you're filling the database with tables then you have to identify all the
different constraints both logical and relational.
And we're going to be taking a look at that further down the section and then next lectures.
So be sure to check all of them up and I hope you enjoyed this today's lecture and I'll see you in the
next one.